Looking for apartments, advice?

I am looking for a 1bed 1bath apartment in the Ypsi area. (For <= $1,200) After snooping around on here and on Google here are the results I've gotten so far:

Actually decent apartments:

Lakeshore Apartments
Chestnut Lake
Pines of Cloverlane (not 100% sure)
Shitboxes: (crime, poor maintenance, terrible staff, etc.)

Aspen Chase, Schooner Cove (anything with Mckinley really)
Arbor One
Country Meadows Apartments
Huron Heights
Six Trails Apartments
Waverly on the Lake
Not enough info on:

Red Lion
Harris & Cross
So far it seems like my only realistic choice by a longshot is Lakeshore but I'd like a second opinion. Are there any decent apartments that I haven't found yet?
Yeah your list seems pretty accurate, Lakeshore is pretty much the best affordable place.

You willing to branch out? There’s some decent places in Van Buren too by or just off the highway.

Yeah I'd be open to branching out. I'd say max 30 minutes out from Ann Arbor is my limit (I currently work there)

Southport and Tuscan Manor might be worth checking out. Southport is nicer, Tuscan Manor is cheaper.

Not sure how quick the commute would be during rush hour but it would be about 20-25 minutes normally.

I can't speak to Southport but Westlake, owned by the same company, was a great place to live. Safe, very responsive maintenance, right near Walmart/Meijer/Aldi and tons of restaurants, right off 94. Could get to downtown AA in probably 25 (I work at the hospital). Might be juuust outside the budget tho

I hate that I had lost my job on move in and missed some payments (causing them to not renew our lease). I really liked living there.
Avoid anything with Beal's name on it
AVOID COUNTRY MEADOWS LIKE THE PLAGUE

My student housing got messed up last year and I had to get a last minute apartment, and they were the only ones available. It was awful. CONSTANT BUG ISSUES, plus appliances that didn't work or broke the second you tried to use them, laundry was SO EXPENSIVE, loud neighbors, sketchy people, and it smelled like weed all the time. I'm back in student housing this year, thank god.

Omg are you me? I was in this *exact* same situation, needed a place last minute after my psycho ex-roommate kicked me off our original lease at Peninsular, so I was able to get in at Country Meadows, and living there for 1 year was enough for me. Felt like I never had privacy, shady people everywhere like you mentioned, constantly smelling of cigarettes and weed, and not to mention all of the cosmetic/borderline hazardous issues in the unit. It felt like I lived in a dark shoebox despite being on the 3rd floor, and the neighbor below me constantly coughed loud asf all the time and would yell and throw stuff at 3 AM and wake me up before I had to be which was not great because I had to be up at 6 AM for work.

I feel bad because the staff I interacted with were so sweet and helpful for the most part. It was all I could afford at the time and I am so glad I am in a way better place that is double the size for less than $200 more now that I have a better-paying job.
Will add about Chesnut Lake: I don't live there, but I live another complex next door. It's an awesome location, pretty peaceful (St Joe's/ Trinity across the street is actually quiet AF considering ambulances go in and out), lots of nature across the road (you can hop on the B2B trail there) and you get great access to both Ypsi and A2 stuff from there.

Seconding Chestnut. I’ve lived here for over a year and just renewed my lease. It’s a nice apartment complex and I too love the location. Rent for even a 2 bedroom is around $1200 or at least was when I moved in last year. It’s surprisingly quiet, I must agree. I’ve had no issues, especially with maintenance. So far they’ve come out quickly and kept the apartment functioning well.
Not sure if River Drive Apartments showed up in your search, but they're up on the north side of ypsi by college heights. I lived there a few years ago and it was good. Mgmt is decent and takes care of problems fast, people who live there are mostly pretty chill. Nothing too crazy or loud. Decently priced and most places have a little balcony. Pool is nice on hot summer days too, but could get a little crowded.

I wrecked my garbage disposal because I accidentally ground up a shot glass (didn't notice it slipped into the disposal) and they replaced it and didn't charge me anything. I was fully expecting to pay since it was 100% my fault it broke.

Safe area, never any issues with crime. I think once someone came and broke into a few unlocked cars, but I always locked mine and never had any issues.

Hey! I'm looking at these apartments! Are there things to do in the area? How easy is it to get to AA from this area? Looks like it's close to Packard, so I'm guessing it's not too bad? For the price and to get a decent sized balcony, these definitely seem like a contender!

Hey!!

There's not a lot of stuff walking distance, but if you have a bike or a car, there's SO MUCH STUFF. There's a TON of restaurants in the area. Washtenaw has a BUNCH of really good restaurants. It's also pretty close to cross street, and both downtown and depot town are only like 5 minutes away. Not really walking distance, but really easy to navigate by car. My personal favorite things close by are Arbor Brewing, Yee Siang dumplings, and Lan City noodles.
There's a fair amount of shopping on Washtenaw, but the only thing to be mindful of is that there isn't really a grocery store anywhere closer than 10 minutes. Not a huge problem if, again, you have a car, but it's kind of a pain to get to grocery stores without one.

2. It's easy to get into Ann arbor, it's not always easy to get back, though. The main way to get into and out of Ann arbor for these apartments is Washtenaw, so you really have to time it right, or else you'll sit there forever. If that doesn't bug you, it's no big deal. If you take Packard it's more out of the way, but less traffic, so kind of 6 of one half dozen of the other.

Speaking of dozens - the apartments are REALLY close to Dom bakery, if you like donuts!!

I had a good time living there. Maintenance was quick, the people who work there were friendly, and they were very good about communicating stuff. Ymmv, of course, but I had a great experience.

Thanks so much for the extremely detailed response!!! Super informative!! I've been looking at lots of apartments, and there are so many where it seems like there's really nothing close. I'm looking at getting a job with the university, so being able to get to AA (and having multiple routes is definitely a plus!) Is certainly important!! Do you mind if I shoot you a message if I have any other questions??
Do you think it’s possible to get to AA with the buses? I don’t have a car but it looks like the only cheap place I can afford are all in Ypsilanti. Pretty far from AA but buses can be an option. I’m not sure if are any bus stops
My partner and I live in the Flo-Mar Terraces on W Clark Road (across from st. Joe's hospital), and we love it. We got a 2 bedroom, and it's really nice. The complex also has a deal with the WCC health & fitness center for a steep discount on the monthly membership fee.

Also: if you branch out to Ypsilanti, AVOID Arbor One like the plague. They're on Leforge Road between Huron River Drive and Clark Road. It wasn't as bad as some stories, but they didn't repair the leaking drain pipe from our 2nd story apartment kitchen that was flooding the downstairs neighbors' apartment for i honestly don't know how long. We moved out when they didn't fix it after 3 months.

Yep, Arbor One is right up there with Beal and McKinley. We lived in the townhouses. Vacant townhouse nextdoor got cleaned up for new tenants and pushed bedbugs into our unit, had a cartoon-level leak in my bedroom ceiling that they sent a contractor out to "fix" like three times and it never actually worked, shower was leaking into the ceiling of our living room below the day we moved in, monstrous weeds in front of our unit that the landscapers kept ignoring for weeks, water leaking from a sewage pipe in our basement. And when we had the audacity to be persistent about having these issued addressed and resolved, they served us a non-renewal notice. Manager lady was also a huge jerk. Avoid, avoid, avoid!
How quiet is it at Flo mar? Issues with neighbor noise?

Hi! There isn't really much noise from neighbors in my building. Mainly just one of my neighbors having the occasional loud phone conversations in the hallway in the early evening (before 8pm).
Hey sorry to revive a dead thread but are you still liking flomar terraces? Also wondering if it seems lgbt friendly/neutral. Thinking of signing a lease there for the fall but I'm from out of state so we can't assess the vibes.

Hi! No worries. We are still enjoying Flo-Mar Terraces. I don't know many people that live in the other buildings in the complex, but one of my neighbors in my building has a rainbow flag hanging over her balcony, and she and at least one other person identifies as LGBTQ, and my partner and I are as well. (I'm nonbinary & trans, and my partner is a lesbian.)

We rented our apartment as an out lesbian couple, and the rainbow flag has been on our neighbor's balcony since before we went to the viewing for our apartment in December 2022.

Ypsilanti and Ann Arbor are both very LGBTQ+ friendly, too, in large part because they're both college towns.

I keep forgetting to reply to the other comment before yours, but it's also a pretty quiet complex, especially if you're in one of the buildings farther from the main road.
I have a coworker that lives in lakeshore and is very happy with it. They seem like nice apartments and have recently been remodeled - also close to town. I tried to get an apartment there when I moved here but someone got the lease the same day I was trying to sign. I lived at red lion and it was strictly okay. The apartments are a little dingy, personally I didn’t feel like I got what I was paying for, but management was responsive and friendly, and maintenance was quick (two things I have never had at an apartment before, so it went a long way with me). Red Lion largely has college kids so it was sometimes a little loud (nothing horrible) but lots of people who just didn’t pick up after themselves, like my neighbor whose dog pissed all down the hallway every time they went out, and they rarely ever cleaned it. Red Lion is also right on the bike trail, so it’s a 10 minute walk along the river into town, which was very very nice.
Pines is pretty good but idk if they will have something right at your price point. Avoid Beal, McKinley, and Red Shield (idk about Red Lion) at all costs.
I've had a pretty good run at Golfside Lake so far for many years. YMMV
Currently live in lakeshore, and honestly, it's probably thr best deal in all of ypsi. For the price you pay, you get nice apartments and lots of amenities. The only downside is that there are no utilities included.

I used to live at Red Lion. They are also nice, and good prices for what you get. Not as many amenities, but office staff and maintenance are amazing. All utilities except DTE are also covered, which helps some with cost.
Anyone have experience an arbor one apartment?
My brother in law lives in pines of cloverlane and loves it. I've visted a few times and seems nice!
I’ve lived at the pines for 3 years and they’re great, their prices fluctuate a ton so as long as you’re in contact w a leasing agent there you should be able to get something for under $1,200. I pay 1,100 for a 1 bed 1 bath rn.
I’ve lived at The Pines and Lakeshore.

The Pines wasn’t too bad for me. The office was sometimes a pain to deal with, but I think they were short staffed at the time and had some new hires. But renting and moving out went smoothly.

Lakeshore does have a lot more amenities but I do believe you’d be paying more. I lived here 2 years and carport parking went from $15-$25 and rent has increased $40 for everyone now, to keep up with “market price”. Some one bed and baths are around $860+utilities depending on layout/location. But could be more if it’s newly renovated.

The Towers at Lakeshore… they’ve had an ant infestation for over 10 years. When I first moved in, they got into so much food, I had to throw out and waste a lot. So I recommend if you end up at the towers, get the office to send in pest control to lay out ant killing stuff (it’s this stuff thats pet safe, I think a liquid, they spread out in places, so that the ants take it back to the nest and die) Pest control comes every Friday. I would also recommend a good vacuuming before moving in. It’s worse in the summer time with the ants but I moved in around November that time and it happened immediately. Other than that, you have two pools, food trucks in the summer, and other cool amenities. It’s probably one of the best options around Ypsi if it’s within your budget!
Avoid McKinley properties, they tack on extra utility fees that drive the rent way up and their complexes are poorly maintained.

Chestnut Lake is really nice, Lakeshore is nice too, just really big!
Munro has a lot of apartments on North Huron Street that are sorta nice, prices were reasonable for me, I was paying 700 for a studio. They're all above stores tho but have appropriate parking.
I'm leaving my current complex (Fairway Trails) to move in to Lakeshore. While i did enjoy my residency with Fairway, I wanted something more premium such as covered parking structure to protect my car from bad weather, more amenities, staying closer to my bro's house in case i need a sleepover, gated entrance, better security and more importantly, CHEAPER RENT!

Feel free to DM if you got any questions.
Avoid beal and avoid ranches from Rose Brook.
Hi! Did you end up deciding on one? If so, which apartment complex did you end up choosing and how have you been liking it?
Comment deleted by user

sycamotree
There's still a waitlist until like October/ November iirc