Housing Affordability & Accessibility Open Forum May 2, 2019 Who’s in the Room? Our Subcommittee: Our Audience: - Renters, Homeowners, Business - Wards? Owners, Landlords, Person - Age (under 24, over 65)? experiencing homelessness - Concerned about - Members of Human Relations, Planning, Sustainability, and Housing accessibility for own home? Commissions - African-American? - Representatives from Avalon - Male? Housing, Ann Arbor Center for Independent Living, DAY, EMU, and Ozone House Our Process and Timeline ● Initial Research - We took a deep, Ypsi-focused, dive into the data on housing, and identified gaps in the information (summer 2018) ● Survey & Interviews - We developed and conducted online and papers surveys and interviewed landlords. We began preparation for this Open Forum. (fall and winter 2018-19) ● Synthesis & Additional Public Input - We compiled data from surveys and interviews and synthesized this data with previous findings. We matched our list of strategies and solutions with needs we see through this process. (winter 2019 to present) ● Affordability: whether you can afford your housing ○ 30% standard: a home is affordable when the residents of What We Mean By that home do not need to pay more than 30% of their income to cover housing costs. Housing ○ Housing and housing-related Affordability expenses: ■ Rent or mortgage ■ Property taxes ■ Insurance, utilities, repairs, etc. Housing Affordability Continued ● Cost-burdened: when you pay too much for housing, technically speaking, when you spend more than 30% of your income on rent ● Half of all households in the City of Ypsilanti are cost burdened. This includes both homeowners and renters. ○ 27% of owner-occupied households are cost burdened ■ Most owner-occupied households making less than $50,000 are cost burdened, particularly at the lower income levels. About half of owner-occupied households in Ypsi make $50k or less. ○ 59% of renter-occupied households are cost burdened ■ Roughly 70% of households in Ypsi are renter households ● Accessibility: whether the design and features of your housing accommodate the needs of people in your home (“accessibility in the ADA sense”) What We Mean By ○ if you are elderly, disabled, or need particular physical and Housing other accommodations ○ wheelchair access, no-step entry, Accessibility mobility assistance, and assistance with daily tasks & self care (ex: cooking, bathing) ○ household space that is adapted to your physical, sensory, cognitive, and other needs Housing Accessibility Continued Nearly 1 in 5 people have a disability in the U.S., Census Bureau reports 19 percent of the population had a disability in 2010, according to a broad definition of disability By this broad definition, 32% of Ypsilanti residents had a disability according to the 2000 census City of Ypsilanti 2012-2016 census statistics report 6.7% of persons under age 65 have a disability, or approximately 1400 disabled persons (auditory, visual, cognitive, ambulatory impairments) We Learned... ● Housing prices are increasing quickly. ● Measures for housing affordability and accessibility don’t reflect the needs of current Ypsilanti residents. ● Ypsilanti’s old housing stock poses threats to health, safety, and accessibility. ● Ypsilanti does not have a lot of land available to build new housing and the zoning code puts constraints on what kind of housing we can build and where. ● Current and past policies contribute to our affordability and accessibility challenges. Survey Data and Limitations Demographics, Representation, Needs, and Trends 6.3% 6.4% 5% The Survey Data on Affordability Cost-burdened Not sure / not cost-burdened Health care Ramp / step-free entrance Loop / lever doorknobs Accessible light switches, outlets Shower seat ● Regulatory fixes/Renter rights ● Zoning and Land Use ● Universal Design/Visitability Policy Potential Strategies ● Community Land Trust ● Public Lands & Solutions ● Need-based Assistance ● Supporting other communities’ efforts Different Arenas for Policy, Advocacy, and Action To be responsive, housing policy must be inclusive of the needs of people in a wide range of circumstances. People who’ve lost their homes to mortgage or tax foreclosure Senior homeowners Senior renters Households with children Prospective homeowners People on limited and fixed incomes People lacking generational wealth Low-income renters People who are caring for (or receiving care) from a loved one Renters who desire to remain renters Renters living in housing that needs upgrades and repairs People facing rent increases People who are unemployed People with criminal records Renters who desire to own or build equity Shorter-term renters People who want to have a place of their own/live alone/live with partner Students People with disabilities and who need special accommodations in housing Homeless and housing insecure children, youth, adults, and seniors Financially constrained homeowners who need to make repairs, accessibility upgrades, other home updates. Who would you add? Legislative, policy & market context ● Federal (Urban Institute, 2017): ○ The proportion of low-income households receiving federal housing assistance has dropped notably since 2005, and the housing assistance gap will continue to worsen ○ The types of beneficiaries served by HUD programs are shifting away from families with children and toward the elderly and disabled ● State (Michigan League for Public Policy, 2018): ○ Michigan law prohibits local units of government from adopting rent control policies, including mandatory inclusionary zoning ○ Michigan’s Housing Trust Fund that has received only two rounds of one-time, limited funding (the last was in 2012) ● Local (Trulia.com): ○ Median rent in Ann Arbor for April 2019 was $2200/month, 10% higher than the same period last year Regulatory fixes/Renter rights • Tenant right of first refusal • Build better public awareness around current renter protections and services • Source of income protections • Non-discrimination ordinance • Access to renter rights info & legal aid • Tenants rights in Michigan Public Lands for Public Good ○ Public lands available within the city may be used to develop affordable housing units to avoid the high costs of market-rate properties ■ Including, but not limited to, Water Street and 220 N. Park ■ Public campaigns for public lands being used for public goods like housing ○ Partnering with nonprofits ○ Affordable live-work spaces for creatives/artists Zoning and Land Use ● Ease restrictions to allow for tiny houses and accessory dwelling units ● Expand the number of non-related persons allowed to reside together in a single dwelling unit Prioritize public participation AND equity when ● updating the zoning code to reflect changing needs Universal Design/Visitability Policies ○ Universal Design (UD) is a strategy for making environments (including homes) welcoming and usable to the most diverse range of people possible. Its key principles are simplicity, flexibility, and efficiency ○ Visitability policies, like the one adopted by Austin, TX, incentivize or require inclusion of accessibility features such as no-step entrances, 36” doorways, and main-floor bathrooms in homes Need-based Assistance ○ Explore, promote, and expand down-payment assistance programs ○ Home rehabilitation for accessibility ○ Home health & safety updates ○ Energy efficiency/weatherization ○ Expand supportive housing and emergency shelter options Community Land Trust ○ Community land trusts are membership-based non-profits that acquire and/or develop land and sell the structures on the land to maintain permanent affordable housing and prevent displacement in appreciating markets ○ Examples: Boston, New Orleans, Durham, NC, Orange County, NC, Atlanta, Pittsburgh Supporting other communities’ efforts ○ Housing affordability in Ypsilanti is influenced by affordability in the surrounding region ○ Advocating for Ann Arbor and other communities to increase affordable housing options could help relieve price pressures in Ypsilanti ○ Collaboration with county initiatives (Washtenaw Urban County, One Community Racial Equity initiative, Affirmatively Furthering Fair Housing) will be important to achieving and sustaining results Wrap Up ● Thank you ● Input on findings, solutions (framing): what was missing? ● Next steps (Our next committee meeting, Planning Commission, City Council) ○ More of this information will be presented but in other venues; come by if you are so moved