Moving to Ypsi

Hi everyone! I was just accepted to grad school at EMU, and my partner and I will be moving to Ypsi soon. Any recs for neighborhoods that are good/not so good? We are from the east coast and have lived in both NY and DC, so we're not super phased by "bad" neighborhoods. Good to get an idea from locals tho! Any input on stuff do/other recs is welcome as well :)

edit: wow thank you everyone! all these comments are so helpful, I'm taking notes and getting excited.
Normal Park and Depot Town are walkable to campus and great neighborhoods. Welcome to Ypsi, lots of great inexpensive restaurants and lots of history to explore.

It is a small college town that is very blue-collar otherwise, so it might take some adjustment coming from a very big city. Ann Arbor is adjacent and Detroit is only about a 30 minute drive for big city amenities.
If I were you, I'd look at Normal Park and College Heights for a "neighborhood feel." You can also look at Downtown, Deport Town or Midtown for a slightly denser vibe if that's what you are looking for. There are other neighborhoods too, but they are farther away from EMUs campus.

Happy to answer any questions you might have here or in DMs.

Congratulations.
Coming from the East Coast more than a decade ago ... I was pretty shocked by the shoddy/terrible conditions of rental properties around here. It's a captive market due to the student population; therefore, landlords don't really care about keeping properties up to snuff. Definitely avoid Beal and McKinley properties. I've heard decent enough things about Mauer: https://www.maurermanagement.com/availability

Neighborhoods to keep your eye on: Depot Town, Downtown, Gault Village, Normal Park, College Heights — the latter of which are very close to campus. I'd also recommend potentially working with a realtor to find rentals — they often have a better pulse on single-family home rentals.

Lol the house I'm currently renting in was built over 100+ years ago!

Old houses can be lovely if they’re actually maintained properly!

Yeah there's some really beautiful houses around here, especially on the depot town side of the river. Mine isn't super nice or fancy (no craftsman ornamentation) but it definitely has its quirks. It's honestly been really nice for the last 3 years except for being not so well insulated. Spent the last month under a heated blanket.

Oh and like only 1/4 the outlets are grounded....
I was pretty shocked by the shoddy/terrible conditions of rental properties around here.
Not from the East Coast, but same. I cannot believe the things I've seen in rentals. Just all around gross and exploitative.
Lakeshore is kind of considered the best complex in Ypsi, but they have a pretty long waiting list so I’d try to get on that ASAP. I live there and can answer any questions you have on it

Came here to say this! Loved my Lakeshore Living!
I live next to Lakeshore towards their disc golf course and have walked the area for 6-7 years. I feel very safe in this area. North Hydro Park trail being within walking distance is a great bonus as well!
We live near it and the houses over here are also pretty nice too. Small and quiet neighbourhoods. But you definitely need a car if you live over here.
+1 for Lakeshore
What vibe are you looking for? What type of home? Will you have a car?
welcome! lived in DC and much prefer this area. send me a DM if you are looking for underground electronic music! EDIT: most of the neighborhoods around here are good....some more affordable than others

Wait there's still underground electronic music in Ypsi? I thought COVID killed that.

dang, that was like 5 years ago. we rebuilt it. hit me up with a DM - there is a whole infolines. Ypsi-Ann Arbor must have 5-7 events a wk.

I'll admit, I'm kinda antisocial hahaha

all good. fwiw, some of these events are the kinda thing you can go and just enjoy the music.
u/microsoft365
Whatever you do AVOID BEAL he is a known slumlord. I also think McKinley is also a bad landlord but not 100 on that.
I just moved here and love it! Def no beal, drive around and inquire in smaller communities of apartment or condos, work w a realtor, they work for a fee that your landlord will help pay when you sign if im not mistaken
Do not rent at arbor one or any Beal property
If you are looking for something close to campus Barnes is one of the better rental companies around here, their properties tend to be decently upkept. Second best is probably old town realty at least in my opinion.

Comment has been removed
KingJokic
Depot Town is the most ideal.
I’ve had good experiences renting through Barnes and Barnes, I’d suggest checking out College Heights or Normal Park!
Depot Town! It’s just the best. People are so friendly, traffic is non-existent, and it’s beautiful and cheap. My wife and I moved here from DC and we love it!
Tower Apartments is a really solid place to live. Barnes and barnes in general is a good one to rent from, just be sure to stay away from anything owned by Beal.
It sounds like you have enough experience to manage any so-called “bad” neighborhoods… so then walkable areas is the next thing I’d look at. My neighborhood lacks consistent sidewalks which is a bit of a bear in the winter! The tradeoff is I have already met several neighbors by smiling and waving while picking up after my dog…on their lawns. West Willow is still quite tucked away from other neighborhoods and probably more car dependent. This would have been reflected in the price of rentals - in the past.
Avoid Old Town Realty. Slumlords will make you live in an infested, sewage filled home and will refuse to do anything about it
As a previous EMU grad student (Congrats btw) I have lived at the Red Lion Apartments for the past 4 years. It's decent and all the people that work here are pretty cool. No problems, gated community, pretty chill. Plus walking distance to downtown.
If staying close to campus isn't too high a priority, I'd say check out Arbor Circle apartments. Probably only 10 mins from EMU. It's a really chill community & haven't had any issues with the office or maintenance. Some units are updated & some aren't. The updated ones are definitely worth the cost.
currently living at Red Lion (<5 min from campus) and have no complaints. i've really enjoyed living here so far and its pretty affordable for the area. you only pay electric and that has been incredibly nice too. there might be a waitlist though i'm not sure.
u/USAA
welcome to the y‼️
There aren’t as many rentals, but Prospect Park and East Prospect Park are good neighborhoods. Close knit. Mostly walkable to Depot Town and Downtown. Close to EMU. My wife and I moved here from Boston in 2017. Loved it so much we bought a house only three blocks away from where we rented.

Good luck with your move!
BE ADVISED: Many people aren’t aware but Michigan law does NOT require landlords to provide a/c in rental units, only heat.
Hey! I moved from NYC. I like downtown, the crime rates are technically higher but if you’ve lived in NY and DC you know how to live in that. If you need a realtor rec of someone who gets it and is patient with out of towners mine was rlly great (and also from nyc so we clicked on that). WebsiteNat Nooks I’ve spent a lot of time in DC and NY too obviously and I think you’ll like it here if you’re coming from those places!!!!
Yea move to Ann Arbor Ypsi has become a homeless refuge and crack dealing havin The crack dealers and homeless have taken over. I’ve lived downtown for about 18 years I recently moved away.
IMO, if you have a vehicle and good time management, just go to Canton or Superior Township.

Redwood Apartments in Superior Township are quiet, clean, well-managed, but pricey. About a ten minute drive to campus. There's a good vibe growing in Ypsilanti - check out Corner Brewing, Berea Bakes, and Ma Lou's Chicken!
There are no bad areas in Ypsi

Comment has been removed
dragon_fae26
The only McKinley property I would live at in Ypsilanti is Schooner Cove. Response management, quick repairs and decent rent.
Comment deleted by user

stopdropandlo
Add McKinley and Red Shield to that list as well.

Red shield is terrible as well, not as bad as Beal but still pretty bad, I would advise trying to avoid them too.
whats wrong with mckinley my partner and i just moved into some owned by them and theyve been alright so far
My caveat to this is beals properties have MASSIVE variance, some houses are very nice and some are mouse infested pissholes. Just know what you're getting into.
Before renting anywhere, I usually would check reviews from previous tenants on sites like TenantTalk, etc to check landlord / property complaints in the area. Good luck!
Do you want to be able to walk to campus or are you okay with commuting (a short distance)? If you’re looking to buy there’s a condo for sale for $275,000 near lakeshore apartments - roughly 6 mile drive
Three Oaks is a smaller rental company but I've had a great experience with them so far. I also highly recommend checking out First Fridays downtown to get to know the community!
Reinhart property management is excellent. Check out their rentals. I rent a home managed by them and it’s been a positive experience. https://reinhartrentals.reinhartrealtors.com/homes-for-sale/REINHART_agent-company/Pending_not-status/Y_rent/P_lp-cd-presentation/1_public/pa_713181/sd_SA2/sn_AGENT_SEARCH_LISTING_P/page_1/sc_lsearch_amt_search_price%20ASC/
A landlord i can recommend is Steve Wild, he doesn't have a company I think if you just search his name + ypsi rentals you will find his site. I've been renting from him for 3 years, 9 years in ypsi total with 3 other landlords and he's by far the best I've ever had.

As far as location, there aren't really any places I would avoid due to like, "neighborhood character" or wherever, but you might consider proximity to good food and grocery stores, especially if you don't have a car or share one. I also wouldn't live anywhere directly on Washtenaw just for noise/ pollution/ ugliness sake. Right near Frog Island is probably the nicest area but I imagine the highest rent.
If you need a moving company for anything Extra Mile Moving is phenomenal, great work ethic and great guys