Good, trouble-free apartment complexes for EMU student

I have a niece who's going to EMU, and her boyfriend is going to WCC. Her boyfriend drives, so he's all set, but she does not drive. What would be good, trouble-free apartment complexes (good upkeep, good neighbors, no hassles) for them to explore? She'd prefer to be within easy walking distance of EMU or alternatively on a solid bus line. She also works in downtown Ann Arbor, so even if she can walk to campus, she'll need to commute by bus. Thanks in advance!!
Holiday-Appearance74
barnes & barnes is generally good, avoid beal at all costs. anything in the cross st area will be generally alright, but you risk getting bad neighbors everywhere 🤷‍♀️ i live on emmett st in a barnes apartment and loving it so far, maintenance has been super responsive and neighbors are quiet. i lived in a house on washtenaw last year and i would NOT recommend living along washtenaw, constant noise, people running into poles, cars broken into once a month…
[deleted]
I lived in Flo-Mar apartments in Ypsilanti about 10 years ago and this was the best company I ever rented from in Ypsilanti!! Pricier but lots of good apartment options.
Alan-Rickman
Avoid beal like the plague.

An apartment that is closest to the campus is safest. As EMU police really do a good job keeping the campus and surrounding area safe.

The pen place/U green area (north of the railroad tracts) also aren’t great. I would go near the tower.
[deleted]
Avoid Glencoe Hills.

[deleted]
Second this! It’s not safe in this complex/ area.
undeterred_turtle
Don't rent from Beale!!
minorgrey
Lakeshore Apartments has a shuttle to the colleges and it's the best apartment complex I've ever lived in. Tons of activities and perks, I still get texts from them letting me know about events going on. Just an all round nice place to live.
Guardgirl23
Barnes & Barnes and Three Oaks are both pretty good, lived in a 3 oaks place for 2 years and they recently switched to a better management company